# Improving reuse in block-level agromet advisory system

India Meteorological Department (IMD) is operating district-level agromet advisory service (AAS) based on district-level Medium-Range weather Forecast (MRF) through 130 Agro-Meteorological Field Units (AMFUs) over a decade. IMD has also started block-level AAS from the year 2015 and operating in a few blocks of each state across India. In block-level AAS, once in every five days, agromet advisory is being prepared for each block based on the block-level MRF. In this paper, we propose a framework to improve the preparation of block-level agromet advisory by modelling a weather situation as **categorical weather condition (CWC)** and exploiting the potential of both **temporal reuse** and **spatial reuse** of agromet advisory based on the similarity among CWCs. The experimental results on the weather data from 2015 to 2019 for 12 blocks of Telangana by considering the similarity among the phenophase-specific CWCs of Rice crop show that there is a scope to improve the efficiency of block-level AAS preparation process by exploiting reuse.

[Poster](04.%20Improving%20reuse%20in%20block-level%20agromet%20advisory%20system.pdf)
[Video](https://youtu.be/QZdFKIjyvNw)

<br>


### Faculty Name

Alugubelly Mamatha<br>
Polepalli Krishna Reddy<br>
Gade Sreenivas<br>
BalajiNaik Banoth<br>
P. Krishna Reddy


### Research Area

Data mining / Pattern mining.


### Type of Work

Framework.


### Current State of work

Other.


### Potential Applications

Weather-based agromet advisory.


### Keywords

Agromet advice, Weather condition, Reuse, Similarity, Weather forecast.
