# A Framework of Crop Specific Virtual Labs to Impart Applied Agricultural Knowledge

In agricultural education, the theoretical concepts are being imparted through classroom lectures and the laboratory skills in the dedicated laboratories. Regarding imparting of practical knowledge, efforts are being made to give practical education by exposing the students to the field problems in college farms and the program called Rural Agricultural Work Experience Programme (RAWEP). Despite these efforts, still there is a feeling that the level of practical skills exposed to the students is not up to the desired level. Virtual crop labs help to enhance the practical knowledge and skills of agricultural students to understand the real time crop problems and provide the corrective steps at the field level. In this paper, we propose a framework of virtual crop labs for enhanced practical education by exploiting the developments in information and communication technologies (ICTs) such as database, digital photography, video and internet technology.

[Poster](05.%20A%20Framework%20of%20Crop%20Specific%20Virtual%20Labs%20to%20Impart%20Applied%20Agricultural%20Knowledge.pdf)
[Video](https://youtu.be/sdcbwnQqbH0)

<br>


### Faculty Name

P. Krishna Reddy


### Type of Work

Research idea.


### Current State of work

Research work is published, and we are planning to implement the system in the future.


### Potential Applications

Virtual crop labs to fill the practical crop problems knowledge gap of graduate students and stake holders in agriculture domain.


### Keywords

IT for agriculture education, agro-informatics, virtual crop labs, decision support system.
