# IoT network-based analysis of variations in particulate matter due to Covid lockdown

This poster presents a quantitative analysis of variations in Particulate Matter (PM) concentration that could be attributed to the COVID-19 Lockdown imposed in the country by using data from two different IoT networks. During the COVID-19 pandemic, India was under complete lockdown from 24th March to 3rd May 2020 to minimize the effects of community transfer and control the rapidly growing rate of the virus spread. In this study, we focus on quantifying the change in air pollution due to Hyderabad's lockdown, the capital of Telangana State. For this, two datasets are employed. The first dataset is from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) stations in the city. In contrast, the second dataset is the dense IoT network of PM monitors deployed in the educational campus of IIITH in Gachibowli, Hyderabad. An analysis is done on the collected data to understand the effect of lockdown on PM values while considering the yearly and seasonal variations. It has been shown that while there is a significant drop in PM values. However, through correlation analysis between the temperature and the PM values during the regular times, not all PM values decrease because of the lockdown.

[Poster](06.%20IoT%20network-based%20analysis%20of%20variations%20in%20particulate%20matter%20due%20to%20Covid%20lockdown.pdf)
[Video](https://youtu.be/lEru51KxBG4)

<br>


### Faculty Name

Souradeep Deb<br>
Sachin Chaudhari
