# Coded data rebalancing

Distributed Data Analytics platforms consist of two components - (i) Distributed Storage System and (ii) Distributed Computation Engine. In such systems, data is usually stored in a distributed fashion in several nodes with some replication in order to reliably maintain and process the data and also provide for the availability of data to multiple connecting clients. Data skew in such systems denotes the disparity in the storage size across different nodes. Data skew and reduction in the replication factor are created in the distributed store due to multiple reasons. For instance, nodes in such platforms often get added or removed from the system due to several reasons like node failures (creating a drop in the replication factor of partial data) or adding new servers into the systems, respectively (the new node has no data compared to existing nodes). Correcting the data skew and re-instating the replication factor involves communication between the nodes, which incurs a cost. Coded communication, in which we communicate linear combinations of the data symbols, has the potential to reduce the communication load in the system by a multiplicative factor. We call this framework Coded Data Rebalancing. We are interested in designing Coded Data Rebalancing schemes and obtaining fundamental limits on the multiplicative gain due to coding for a variety of distributed settings and storage architectures.

[Poster](11.%20Coded%20data%20rebalancing.pdf)

<br>


### Faculty Name

Shubransh Singhvi<br>
P. Krishnan
